1- PyTorch3D

PyTorch3D is a Python library for 3D deep learning that was developed under the open source project PyTorch.

The library is aimed to make 3D deep learning with PyTorch easier with unique characteristics that make the library highly flexible & optimized. In order to integrate deep learning with 3D data smoothly, PyTorch operations are constructed using PyTorch tensors and can handle mini-batches of heterogeneous data.

Mesh R-CNN, a research project at Facebook AI Research, is powered by this library. It offers a set of quick and differentiable 3D operators and loss functions for 3D data. Researchers can import these functions into existing state-of-the art deep learning systems right now thanks to a modular differentiable rendering API.

1.1- This library's highlights include:

You can store and manipulate triangle meshes with its data structure.
It has efficient triangle mesh operations including protective transformations, graph convolution, and loss functions, amongst others.
The mesh renderer in PyTorch3D can be customized.
Most major cloud platforms provide good support for the library, making it easy to develop on and scale
2- Open3D

Open3D is a 3D data processing open-source framework that encourages the quick creation of 3D data-related software.

The library's front end exposes a selection of carefully chosen data structures and algorithms written in C++ and Python. The back-end, on the other hand, is highly optimized and prepared for parallelization.

2.1- The following are only a few of the features:

A three-dimensional database.
Algorithms for 3D data processing.
Reconstruction of the original scene
Visualization in three dimensions
Rendering that is grounded in reality (PBR)
3- Panda3D

In addition to real-time 3D games, visualizations, and simulations, Panda3D is an open-source library.

The C++ code is wrapped in Python bindings to create the library. You can use it for a wide range of different things. It supports a lot of different things.

3.1- The following are only a few of the features:

Using Panda3D, you get the speed of C++ with the convenience of Python, so you don't have to sacrifice performance for speed.
To make deployment on all supported platforms as simple as possible, it is a cross-platform engine.
It has tools for processing and optimizing source assets via the command line.
4- Kaolin

In order to speed up 3D deep learning research, the PyTorch library Kaolin provides efficient implementations of differentiable 3D modules needed to create a 3D deep learning application.

4.1- The following are only a few of the features :

It enables the loading and preprocessing of the well-known 3D dataset.
For 3D tasks on point clouds, meshes, voxel grids, signed distance functions and RGB-D pictures, it includes an extensive model zoo of regularly used neural architectures and loss functions
A number of existing differentiable renderers are implemented in Kaolin, and numerous shaders are supported in a modular fashion.
Many standard 3D measurements are provided for convenient evaluation of research findings.
5- Mayavi

It is written in Python and is available as an open-source, cross-platform programme for visualizing scientific data in three dimensions (3D).

Mayavi's goal is to make 3D data visualization simple and interactive using a Python scripting interface that includes one-liners, an object-oriented programming interface, and other capabilities.

5.1- As an example, here are a few functions to consider:

Python offers script-ability at an incredibly low cost.
Extensibility through the use of custom sources, modules, and filtering methods
Making a range of picture formats for rendering and saving the visualization.
VTK (traditional and XML), PLOT3D, and other file formats are also supported when reading.
6- Pi3d

A Python package known as pi3d attempts to make it easier to write 3D Python code while also giving users access to the GPU's processing capability on a Raspberry Pi.

Rendering is possible in three dimensions as well as two dimensions. A wide range of commands are provided to import textured or animated models as well as generate fractal scenery and use shaders.

6.1- Here are a few highlights:

For platforms other than the Raspberry Pi, the pi3d module is available for use with Pygame on Windows, Linux, and Android via python-for-android).

The library can be used with Python 2 or Python 3.
